{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red41\green68\blue133;\red37\green0\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c20784\c34510\c59216;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c100000;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\sa200\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs22 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The following information should prove to be useful and relevant to analysts of the High School Longitudinal Study of 2009 (HSLS:09). More information with greater detail may be found in the Data File Documentation which accompanies the HSLS:09 data and is accessible through the HSLS:09 webpage on the NCES website:{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.nces.ed.gov/surveys/hsls09"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 www.nces.ed.gov/surveys/hsls09}}. Please direct any questions or any errors you encounter to the HSLS:09 project team at the HSLS email address: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:HSLS09@ed.gov"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 \strokec3 HSLS09@ed.gov}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 \strokec4 Choose the Correct Design Weights\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b0 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 As noted throughout the accompanying Data File Documentation [NEED TO PROVIDE THE LINK TO THE DFD], the correct weights are important to apply to analyses so that findings may be generalized to the population of America\'92s ninth-graders in high schools with ninth- and eleventh-grades. Please check that the weights you select are appropriate for the analyses you plan to conduct.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 Public-Use Data Users Must Use BRR\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\b0 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Variance estimation is supported through two means: BRR (Balanced Repeated Replication) and Taylor series linearization. The BRR approach to calculating HSLS:09 standard errors is recommended and the BRR replicate weights are available on the public-use file. To ensure confidentiality, the Taylor Series Primary Sampling Unit (PSU) and Strata identifiers are not available on the public-use data file, but only on the restricted-use data file.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 Suppression of School-Level Data\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl240\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0
\b0 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The majority of school-level data is suppressed on the public-use data file to ensure confidentiality and protect the identity of participating schools. With advances in technology and motivation from federal grant programs, more school-level data are available through various search engines, data warehouses, and state longitudinal data systems. This ready availability means that NCES must not release data that users may be able to find through these sources. Such data may be used to match schools in the sample, thus identifying participating schools. Restricted data users may be privy to this information, but public data users may not. The same approach, to a lesser extent, applies to student-level data. However, compared to school-level data, student-level data are more difficult to locate online or elsewhere.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 Read Descriptive Windows Closely for Composite Variables\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl240\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0
\b0 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Some items that may strike the user as capturing the same information may in fact capture slightly different information or be based on different input variables. One such example is race. The composite dummy variable X1WHITE indicates that there are 15,829 white students in the sample. The X1RACE composite variable breaks down student race/ethnicity into several categories, one of which is white. This X1RACE variable indicates that there are 11,854 white students in the sample. The difference emerges from the refinement of the X1RACE variable. If a student identified as being multi-racial (one of which was white), and/or of Hispanic origin, then the student would be considered white in X1WHITE and \'93more than one race\'94 or perhaps \'93Hispanic\'94 in X1RACE. Thus, the reduced number of white students in X1RACE compared to X1WHITE.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf4 The Meaning of Missing Values\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl240\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\b0 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The instrumentation can be found on the main HSLS website [http://nces.ed.gov/surveys/hsls09/questionnaires.asp]. Please make sure to consult the instrumentation to understand how questions were asked and of whom they were asked. Not every participant received every question, therefore there is a reserve code system in which:\uc0\u8232 \u8232 -5 = \'93Data Suppressed\'94\'97indicates values that are available on the restricted-use data file but suppressed on the public-use data file.\u8232 -7 = \'93Item legitimate skip/NA\'94\'97indicates items that are programmatically skipped based on rules in the questionnaire and are not applicable to those respondents.\u8232 -8 = \'93Nonrespondent/component NA\'94\'97indicates that data are not available because of unit nonresponse or the interview component did not apply (e.g., student has no math class, thus the math teacher interview does not apply).\u8232 -9 = \'93Missing\'94\'97indicates item level missing where the question may apply to the respondent but it is not answered, or the question is not administered because the gate/introductory question is not answered.\
}